# Day 2

- Should play with Post route and the rest
- Webcam example post to Storage and it's not define, I can look at it.
- Install PHPStorm
- Continue to read quickly laravel doc to get an overview of what is there.

Write [Medium Article](https://medium.com/@johann.baziret/install-and-use-npm-packages-in-laravel-with-livewire-blade-9946de9bac76).

- Continue to read the laravel doc

### Storage issue

It was just because I didn't had the Storage class imported.
Where does it store the file?

Here: everyday-laravel/storage/app/uploads/6575241f1c315.png

If we want to store file in the file system of the VPS (if we are in a VPS environment)
If we are using lambda or serverless we have to attach a volume there.

### PHPStorm with Laravel IDEA

It seems to be a must when you are in a professional project world.
It will cost 123 usd per year which is not that high (with Laravel Idea)

### Learning PHPStorm

I bought it ... as it was not that expensive I'm now following the tutorial about it by Jeffrey Wey
https://laracasts.com/series/phpstorm-for-laravel-developers/episodes/1

Let's see

- Option Space on a class give me a quick overview of what it is
- CMD + P = search everywhere then tab to go on class ; files etc
- CMD + click on a class it goes inside.
- CMD + ] or [ to go back and forth in click point.
- CMD + E for recent files not bad that one.
- CMD + SHIFT + E for recent location. __
- Installed Laravel Pint using a File Watcher and deactivated the default PHP formatter.
- CMD + Shift + ,  : Generate any type of Laravel Class then write create model or else
- BelongTo auto generated as a snippet if you have the migration and something in common.
- Try to regenerate the helper method often to have the auto-complete... can we do an file watcher or on Save?
- CTRL + G to select multiple same words with multiple cursors
- SHIFT + CTRL + G all the words inside as multicursor
- Option + \ Next suggestion by copilot .

I didn't watch the last two episodes about xdebug and php unit test.

### Tailwind Prettier

It's working ! in the blade files!
I had to install another plugin  https://github.com/shufo/prettier-plugin-blade
And add another prettierrc.json (look into the project)
Set the blade.php in settings of PHPStorm and restart mutliple times.

### Service Container

It seems to be a very complex subject. I'm wondering if it's something that is done often by Laravel developers?

### Service Provider

A bit like Service Container, the doc doesn't really show real life example and so it's quite hard to understand how
and when to use them

### Routing

- Optional Parameters

Could be useful, weird syntax **(?string - {name?})**

``` php
Route::get('/user/{name?}', function (?string $name = null) {
    return $name;
});
```

- Regular Expression Constraints
-

There are helper method to help instead of Where + regex.

``` php
Route::get('/user/{name}', function (string $name) {
    // ...
})->where('name', '[A-Za-z]+');

Route::get('/user/{id}/{name}', function (string $id, string $name) {
    // ...
})->where(['id' => '[0-9]+', 'name' => '[a-z]+']);

Route::get('/user/{id}', function (string $id) {
    // ...
})->whereUuid('id');

->whereNumber('id')->whereAlpha('name');
->whereIn('category', ['movie', 'song', 'painting']);
...
```

### Global Constraints

- Can define global constraints in the boot method of the RouteServiceProvider

  `Route::pattern('id', '[0-9]+');` so

``` php
Route::get('/user/{id}', function (string $id) {
    // Only executed if {id} is numeric...
});
  ```

### Routing quickies

- Name route to use a router object to redirect to a simpler name (ex: profile instead of /user/profile)
- `if ($request->route()->named('profile')) `
- A lot of grouping method (middleware, controller, prefixes, subdomain, ...)

### Automatic Model Binding

- In controller

```php
public function show(User $user)
{
    return view('user.profile', ['user' => $user]);
}
```

in route

```php
Route::get('/users/{user}', function (User $user) {
    return $user->email;
});
```

- ->withTrashed(); if want to get model that are soft deleted

- Customising the key

```php
Route::get('/posts/{post:slug}', function (Post $post) {
    return $post;
});
```

always resolve with another attribute than ID ? in the model override this method

```php
public function getRouteKeyName(): string
{
    return 'slug';
}
```

- ->scopeBindings(); in case we have two eloquent model in the path and so make sure that the second is a child of the
  first (ex: /posts/{post}/comments/{comment})

### Manage 404 when missing model

```php
Route::get('/locations/{location:slug}', [LocationsController::class, 'show'])
    ->name('locations.view')
    ->missing(function (Request $request) {
    return Redirect::route('locations.index');
});
```

**Enum exist in PHP and can be used in routing**

### Rate Limiting

- Can do stuff like , if vipCustomer no limit, else limit of 10 per ip per minute
- It would be interesting to see a **real use case.**

### CORS config in cors.php config file

### Middleware

Interesting do something before or after the middleware has been executed.
I'm wondering which use case this could be used.

```php
class AfterMiddleware
{
    public function handle(Request $request, Closure $next): Response
    {
        $response = $next($request);
 
        // Perform action
 
        return $response;
    }
}
```

- We can assign alias to middleware

```php
protected $middlewareAliases = [
    'auth' => \App\Http\Middleware\Authenticate::class,
    ... 
    ];
```

### CSRF Token

In blade view, use the following directive:

```php
<form method="POST" action="/profile">
    @csrf
</form>
```

The **VerifyCsrfToken** class have an $except array where you can put exception (for ex Stripe api)
