# Day 4

- Read the doc : Controller

I've a small idea that I could try to do with Laravel.
What I need to cover:

- Consume API with Laravel (in a efficient way)
- Create forms to select data that I'll send to the api (ex: Name, select Y, A date, ... )
- Might be worth to look at a library for the forms ? (UI WISE also? )
    - What about MaryUI ?

### Read of the day

- https://planetscale.com/blog/serverless-laravel-app-aws-lambda-bref-planetscale
- https://bref.sh/
- https://www.reddit.com/r/laravel/comments/18ebdv0/hard_to_find_a_job/

### Discussion with Adam

- https://laravelshift.com/ to upgrade your laravel project easily
- TALL stack feel "slow/sluggish" because the logic is on the server. Best for SPA
- For him the Vue and Inertia is the best option. (I'll try to do a small project with it)
- /!\ Filament use Livewire ; Nova use Vue.

### Controller

- Single Action Controller (define the __invoke method)
- You can call your middleware in your controller if you want
- Resource controller create all the CRUD routes for you
- You can use the `php artisan make:controller` command to create a controller
    - With the artisan you can specify `php artisan make:controller PhotoController --model=Photo --resource --requests`
    - I couldn't do it with Laravel Idea
    - **You need to generate the model and tick the case for "Controller"**
- Route::singleton -- I don't get when to use this really - github found only 61 code using it.

### Request

In a controller to get the request object, you have to add the Request $request in the parameters of the function and
import the class. The DI will manage then.

Request object

- $request->url()
- $request->is('admin/*')
- $uri = $request->path();
- $request->host();
- $request->method()
- $token = $request->bearerToken(); (Might be useful)
- $request->accepts(['text/html', 'application/json'])
- $request->expectsJson()
- $name = $request->input('name');
- $name = $request->input('products.0.name');
- $names = $request->input('products.*.name');
- $input = $request->input();
- $name = $request->query('name'); (QUERYSTRING)

It has a lot of method to help you manage a lot of case :P

- $request->flash(); Put the value in the session so the next request can access it.
- $username = $request->old('username');
- $value = $request->cookie('name'); (Cookies)

... more stuff about storing files, proxies and load balancer config.

### Response

- Can return an eloquent model and it will respond with a json
- Fluent construction of a response ()->headers()->headers() ....
- redirect()->route('login')
- redirect()->action([UserController::class, 'index']);
- redirect()->away('https://www.google.com');
- redirect()->with ... so access to the session item in your blade file
- a lot of helper method on response (view, json, download )

### View

Can use react,vue,blade

- return view('greeting', ['name' => 'James']); This array style of passing arguments
- return view('admin.profile', $data); Nested directory (means we are looking into admin/profile.blade)
- composer to attach data to all view you defined
- php artisan view:cache (when you deploy)

### Blade

- To get json in a javascript file

```php 
<script>
    var app = {{ Js::from($array) }};
</script>

```

- @verbatim to escape the blade syntax if you use a lot of JS

- if statement in blade

```php
@if (count($records) === 1)
    I have one record!
@elseif (count($records) > 1)
    I have multiple records!
@else
    I don't have any records!
@endif
```

- @auth
- @isset($records)
- @unless (Auth::check())
- @env('staging')
- @sectionMissing('navigation')
- @foreach ($users as $user)
- forelse ... never saw that one it's not bad

```php
@forelse ($users as $user)
    <li>{{ $user->name }}</li>
@empty
    <p>No users</p>
@endforelse

```

- Condition to continue or break with parameters

```php
@foreach ($users as $user)
    @continue($user->type == 1)
 
    <li>{{ $user->name }}</li>
 
    @break($user->number == 5)
@endforeach
```

- There is a loop object that give info about the foreach like index, iteration, remaining, count, first, ...
- Conditional class

```php 

<span @class([
    'p-4',
    'font-bold' => $isActive,
    'text-gray-500' => ! $isActive,
    'bg-red' => $hasError,
])></span>
```

- `<input type="checkbox"
  name="active"
  value="active"
  @checked(old('active', $user->active)) />`

- Include a subview @include('shared.errors')
    - Will inherit all the data of the parent, you can still specify other data
    - @includeWhen($boolean, 'view.name', ['status' => 'complete'])
- @each('view.name', $jobs, 'job')  combine loop and view

-- Rest of the day I played with OctoAI to have a hosted version of Automatic1111 webui.
I've an issue with the api which is not activated. I've ask on their discord.

It's part of the idea that I've for a small laravel project.
